README.md, before:

# FlaskAppEnhanced

[![CI](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/release.yml)
[![Package (GHCR)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/package.yml)

Small Flask app scaffold with basic security features, tests, and CI.

This repository is also set up as a GitHub learning example: you can use it to understand common repo files, workflows, and where to click in GitHub.

Quick links:
- App docs and setup: `README.md`
- GitHub walkthrough: `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md`
- Contributing workflow: `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- Security reporting: `SECURITY.md`

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Quick Start (Local)](#quick-start-local)
- [Run as an Installed Package](#run-as-an-installed-package)
- [Run with Docker](#run-with-docker)
- [Development Commands](#development-commands)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Environment](#environment)
- [Production Run (Example)](#production-run-example)
- [Deploy a Live Demo](#deploy-a-live-demo)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Learning Path](#learning-path)
- [Sharing for Learning](#sharing-for-learning)
- [Public Launch Checklist](#public-launch-checklist)
- [Analytics and Privacy](#analytics-and-privacy)
- [Learn GitHub Using This Repo](#learn-github-using-this-repo)
- [GitHub Page Anatomy (Quick Reference)](#github-page-anatomy-quick-reference)
- [Security Notes](#security-notes)

## Features
- Homepage at `/`
- Health check at `/health`
- CSRF-protected form at `/submit`
- JSON API example at `/api/echo`
- Rate limiting via `Flask-Limiter`
- Security headers and request IDs
- GitHub Actions CI (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`)
- GitHub Release automation (`.github/workflows/release.yml`)
- GitHub Container Registry package workflow (`.github/workflows/package.yml`)

## Quick Start (Local)
```powershell
python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py
```

Visit:
- `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`
- `http://127.0.0.1:5000/health`

Quick test after startup:
```powershell
curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/health
```

## Run as an Installed Package
You can also install and run this as a Python package:

```powershell
pip install .
flaskappenhanced
```

Alternative:
```powershell
python -m app
```

## Run with Docker
Build and run locally with Docker:

```powershell
docker build -t flaskappenhanced:local .
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 -e SECRET_KEY=change-me flaskappenhanced:local
```

Then visit:
- `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`
- `http://127.0.0.1:8000/health`

This repo also publishes a container image to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) via `.github/workflows/package.yml`.

Example GHCR image (replace tag as needed):
```powershell
docker pull ghcr.io/dkupratis-debug/flaskappenhanced:latest
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 -e SECRET_KEY=change-me ghcr.io/dkupratis-debug/flaskappenhanced:latest
```

## Development Commands
```powershell
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
ruff check .
pytest
```

One-line local package build check:
```powershell
python -m build
```

Task runners:
- `Makefile` for Unix/macOS (`make test`, `make lint`, etc.)
- `tasks.ps1` for PowerShell (`.\tasks.ps1 test`, `.\tasks.ps1 lint`, etc.)

## Project Structure
- `app/` - Flask app package, routes, templates, static files
- `tests/` - Pytest test suite
- `.github/workflows/` - CI and release automation
- `docs/` - GitHub UI and contributor learning docs
- `config.py` - Environment-based config classes
- `requirements*.txt` - Runtime and development dependencies
- `pyproject.toml` - Project metadata, tooling, packaging configuration

## Environment
Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update values as needed. `python-dotenv` loads `.env` automatically if installed.

Useful variables:
- `FLASK_ENV=development|production`
- `SECRET_KEY=...`
- `RATELIMIT_DEFAULT=200 per day;50 per hour`
- `RATELIMIT_STORAGE_URI=memory://` (use Redis in production)
- `LOG_FILE=logs/app.log`

## Production Run (Example)
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
$env:FLASK_ENV="production"
$env:SECRET_KEY="change-me"
gunicorn -c gunicorn.conf.py wsgi:app
```

## Deploy a Live Demo
This repository includes a starter Render blueprint in `render.yaml` so you can create a real demo URL and add it to GitHub `About -> Website`.

Start here:
- `docs/DEPLOY_DEMO.md` (deployment steps and safety notes)
- `render.yaml` (starter configuration)

## Troubleshooting
### GitHub shows an older commit
GitHub only shows new code after `git add` + `git commit` + `git push`.

### GitHub shows a different account on the commit
Commit attribution comes from your local git `user.name` / `user.email`, not just the repo owner.

### `pytest` warnings about cache permissions
This repo disables pytest's cache provider in `pyproject.toml` to avoid noisy permission warnings in restricted environments.

### Rate limiting in production
`memory://` works for local demos, but use Redis in production (`RATELIMIT_STORAGE_URI`) for accurate limits across processes.

### Releases vs Packages on GitHub
- `Releases` in this repo contains versioned source/wheel artifacts (for example `v0.2.0`)
- `Packages` is for registry-published packages (this repo publishes a container image to GHCR via Actions)

## Learning Path
Use this repo as a hands-on GitHub + Flask lab.

### Beginner path (60-90 minutes)
1. Read `README.md` and `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md`
2. Run the app locally and open `/health`
3. Run `pytest` and `ruff check .`
4. Create a branch and make a tiny README change
5. Push branch and open a PR
6. Watch the CI run in GitHub Actions
7. Merge the PR (if allowed in your fork)
8. Inspect the commit history, release page, and package workflow
9. (Optional) Deploy a demo app and add the URL to the repo `About` section

### Reviewer path
1. Open a PR
2. Use `docs/PR_REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md`
3. Review code, tests, config, docs, and security impact
4. Check CI and release/package workflows

## Sharing for Learning
To share this repo with learners effectively:

1. Send the repo link plus a short goal:
   - "Learn GitHub PRs, Actions, Releases, and Packages using a small Flask app."
2. Tell learners where to start:
   - `README.md`
   - `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md`
   - `CONTRIBUTING.md`
3. Give them a first task:
   - "Change a README line and open a PR"
4. Ask them to inspect:
   - `Actions` tab
   - `Releases` tab
   - `Packages` section
5. Use forks for practice so they can safely merge in their own copy

Read `docs/SAFE_SHARING.md` before posting publicly (especially on social media).

## Public Launch Checklist
Before making this repo public or sharing it widely, use:
- `docs/PUBLIC_LAUNCH_CHECKLIST.md`
- `docs/SAFE_SHARING.md`

These docs explain how to share safely while keeping your repo protected.

## Analytics and Privacy
If you want to understand how people use the repo or demo app, start with:
- `docs/ANALYTICS_AND_PRIVACY.md`

Short version:
- Use GitHub `Insights -> Traffic` for repo-level traffic (views/clones/referrers)
- Use app logs for demo usage patterns
- Prefer aggregate, privacy-first analytics over invasive user tracking

## Learn GitHub Using This Repo
Start here:
- `README.md` (project overview)
- `CONTRIBUTING.md` (branching, commit, PR flow)
- `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md` (GitHub UI walkthrough)
- `docs/PR_REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md` (how to review PRs)
- `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` (request flow and components)
- `docs/VERSIONING_AND_RELEASES.md` (version/tag/release flow)
- `docs/SAFE_SHARING.md` (how to share safely)
- `docs/PUBLIC_LAUNCH_CHECKLIST.md` (how to prepare for public sharing)
- `docs/ANALYTICS_AND_PRIVACY.md` (tracking usage ethically)
- `docs/DEPLOY_DEMO.md` (how to get a live demo URL)
- `docs/exercises/CODEOWNERS_REVIEW_EXERCISE.md` (guided practice PR)
- `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (automation)
- `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` (PR structure)
- `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/` (issue forms)
- `SECURITY.md` (security policy)

## GitHub Setup Status (Example Repo)
This repository is configured as a practical GitHub example and includes:

- `About` section with description, homepage, and topics
- Branch protection on `main` (PR review + required CI + admin enforcement)
- CI, Release, and GHCR package workflows
- Dependabot alerts and automated security fixes
- Issue/PR templates, `CODEOWNERS`, `CONTRIBUTING.md`, and `SECURITY.md`
- `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` and `SUPPORT.md`

## Visual Walkthrough Assets
Screenshot/GIF placeholders and capture plan live in:
- `docs/images/README.md`

Add screenshots there to make the GitHub guide more visual for friends and learners.

### Maintainer Workflow (Current)
Because `main` is protected (including admins), changes should go through:
1. Create a branch
2. Push branch
3. Open PR
4. Wait for CI
5. Merge PR

## GitHub Page Anatomy (Quick Reference)
When you open this repository on GitHub, you will usually see:

- `README`
  - Project overview and setup instructions (`README.md`)
- `Security policy`
  - Vulnerability reporting guidance (`SECURITY.md`)
- `Activity`
  - Recent repository changes and maintenance signals
- `Stars`
  - How many users bookmarked/liked the repo
- `Watchers`
  - How many users are subscribed to repo notifications
- `Forks`
  - How many copies of the repo exist in other accounts (often used for contributions)

These counts (`Stars`, `Watchers`, `Forks`) are GitHub UI stats and update automatically over time.

## Security Notes
- CSRF enabled for HTML form submissions (`Flask-WTF`)
- `/api/echo` is CSRF-exempt intentionally as a demo JSON endpoint
- Request IDs are added to logs and responses via `X-Request-Id`
- Rate-limit storage should be Redis in production for accuracy

Commit message:

Add beginner guide, roadmap, and screenshot checklist

README.md, after:

# FlaskAppEnhanced

[![CI](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![Release](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/release.yml)
[![Package (GHCR)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/dkupratis-debug/FlaskAppEnhanced/actions/workflows/package.yml)

Small Flask app scaffold with basic security features, tests, and CI.

This repository is also set up as a GitHub learning example: you can use it to understand common repo files, workflows, and where to click in GitHub.

Quick links:
- App docs and setup: `README.md`
- GitHub walkthrough: `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md`
- Contributing workflow: `CONTRIBUTING.md`
- Security reporting: `SECURITY.md`

## Table of Contents
- [Features](#features)
- [Quick Start (Local)](#quick-start-local)
- [Run as an Installed Package](#run-as-an-installed-package)
- [Run with Docker](#run-with-docker)
- [Development Commands](#development-commands)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Environment](#environment)
- [Production Run (Example)](#production-run-example)
- [Deploy a Live Demo](#deploy-a-live-demo)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Learning Path](#learning-path)
- [First 10 Minutes (Beginner Click Guide)](#first-10-minutes-beginner-click-guide)
- [Sharing for Learning](#sharing-for-learning)
- [Public Launch Checklist](#public-launch-checklist)
- [Analytics and Privacy](#analytics-and-privacy)
- [Learn GitHub Using This Repo](#learn-github-using-this-repo)
- [GitHub Page Anatomy (Quick Reference)](#github-page-anatomy-quick-reference)
- [Security Notes](#security-notes)

## Features
- Homepage at `/`
- Health check at `/health`
- CSRF-protected form at `/submit`
- JSON API example at `/api/echo`
- Rate limiting via `Flask-Limiter`
- Security headers and request IDs
- GitHub Actions CI (`.github/workflows/ci.yml`)
- GitHub Release automation (`.github/workflows/release.yml`)
- GitHub Container Registry package workflow (`.github/workflows/package.yml`)

## Quick Start (Local)
```powershell
python -m venv venv
.\venv\Scripts\activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
python app.py
```

Visit:
- `http://127.0.0.1:5000/`
- `http://127.0.0.1:5000/health`

Quick test after startup:
```powershell
curl http://127.0.0.1:5000/health
```

## Run as an Installed Package
You can also install and run this as a Python package:

```powershell
pip install .
flaskappenhanced
```

Alternative:
```powershell
python -m app
```

## Run with Docker
Build and run locally with Docker:

```powershell
docker build -t flaskappenhanced:local .
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 -e SECRET_KEY=change-me flaskappenhanced:local
```

Then visit:
- `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`
- `http://127.0.0.1:8000/health`

This repo also publishes a container image to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR) via `.github/workflows/package.yml`.

Example GHCR image (replace tag as needed):
```powershell
docker pull ghcr.io/dkupratis-debug/flaskappenhanced:latest
docker run --rm -p 8000:8000 -e SECRET_KEY=change-me ghcr.io/dkupratis-debug/flaskappenhanced:latest
```

## Development Commands
```powershell
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
ruff check .
pytest
```

One-line local package build check:
```powershell
python -m build
```

Task runners:
- `Makefile` for Unix/macOS (`make test`, `make lint`, etc.)
- `tasks.ps1` for PowerShell (`.\tasks.ps1 test`, `.\tasks.ps1 lint`, etc.)

## Project Structure
- `app/` - Flask app package, routes, templates, static files
- `tests/` - Pytest test suite
- `.github/workflows/` - CI and release automation
- `docs/` - GitHub UI and contributor learning docs
- `config.py` - Environment-based config classes
- `requirements*.txt` - Runtime and development dependencies
- `pyproject.toml` - Project metadata, tooling, packaging configuration

## Environment
Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and update values as needed. `python-dotenv` loads `.env` automatically if installed.

Useful variables:
- `FLASK_ENV=development|production`
- `SECRET_KEY=...`
- `RATELIMIT_DEFAULT=200 per day;50 per hour`
- `RATELIMIT_STORAGE_URI=memory://` (use Redis in production)
- `LOG_FILE=logs/app.log`

## Production Run (Example)
```powershell
pip install -r requirements.txt
$env:FLASK_ENV="production"
$env:SECRET_KEY="change-me"
gunicorn -c gunicorn.conf.py wsgi:app
```

## Deploy a Live Demo
This repository includes a starter Render blueprint in `render.yaml` so you can create a real demo URL and add it to GitHub `About -> Website`.

Start here:
- `docs/DEPLOY_DEMO.md` (deployment steps and safety notes)
- `render.yaml` (starter configuration)

## Troubleshooting
### GitHub shows an older commit
GitHub only shows new code after `git add` + `git commit` + `git push`.

### GitHub shows a different account on the commit
Commit attribution comes from your local git `user.name` / `user.email`, not just the repo owner.

### `pytest` warnings about cache permissions
This repo disables pytest's cache provider in `pyproject.toml` to avoid noisy permission warnings in restricted environments.

### Rate limiting in production
`memory://` works for local demos, but use Redis in production (`RATELIMIT_STORAGE_URI`) for accurate limits across processes.

### Releases vs Packages on GitHub
- `Releases` in this repo contains versioned source/wheel artifacts (for example `v0.2.0`)
- `Packages` is for registry-published packages (this repo publishes a container image to GHCR via Actions)

## Learning Path
Use this repo as a hands-on GitHub + Flask lab.

### Beginner path (60-90 minutes)
1. Read `README.md` and `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md`
2. Run the app locally and open `/health`
3. Run `pytest` and `ruff check .`
4. Create a branch and make a tiny README change
5. Push branch and open a PR
6. Watch the CI run in GitHub Actions
7. Merge the PR (if allowed in your fork)
8. Inspect the commit history, release page, and package workflow
9. (Optional) Deploy a demo app and add the URL to the repo `About` section

### Reviewer path
1. Open a PR
2. Use `docs/PR_REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md`
3. Review code, tests, config, docs, and security impact
4. Check CI and release/package workflows

## First 10 Minutes (Beginner Click Guide)
If you are brand new to GitHub, start with:
- `docs/FIRST_10_MINUTES.md`

This is a click-by-click walkthrough that shows exactly where to go first:
- repo homepage / README
- pinned `Start Here` issue
- workshop issues
- Actions
- Releases
- Packages

## Sharing for Learning
To share this repo with learners effectively:

1. Send the repo link plus a short goal:
   - "Learn GitHub PRs, Actions, Releases, and Packages using a small Flask app."
2. Tell learners where to start:
   - `README.md`
   - `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md`
   - `CONTRIBUTING.md`
3. Give them a first task:
   - "Change a README line and open a PR"
4. Ask them to inspect:
   - `Actions` tab
   - `Releases` tab
   - `Packages` section
5. Use forks for practice so they can safely merge in their own copy

Read `docs/SAFE_SHARING.md` before posting publicly (especially on social media).

## Public Launch Checklist
Before making this repo public or sharing it widely, use:
- `docs/PUBLIC_LAUNCH_CHECKLIST.md`
- `docs/SAFE_SHARING.md`

These docs explain how to share safely while keeping your repo protected.

## Analytics and Privacy
If you want to understand how people use the repo or demo app, start with:
- `docs/ANALYTICS_AND_PRIVACY.md`

Short version:
- Use GitHub `Insights -> Traffic` for repo-level traffic (views/clones/referrers)
- Use app logs for demo usage patterns
- Prefer aggregate, privacy-first analytics over invasive user tracking

## Learn GitHub Using This Repo
Start here:
- `README.md` (project overview)
- `docs/FIRST_10_MINUTES.md` (fast beginner click guide)
- `CONTRIBUTING.md` (branching, commit, PR flow)
- `docs/GITHUB_GUIDE.md` (GitHub UI walkthrough)
- `docs/PR_REVIEW_CHECKLIST.md` (how to review PRs)
- `docs/ARCHITECTURE.md` (request flow and components)
- `docs/VERSIONING_AND_RELEASES.md` (version/tag/release flow)
- `docs/SAFE_SHARING.md` (how to share safely)
- `docs/PUBLIC_LAUNCH_CHECKLIST.md` (how to prepare for public sharing)
- `docs/ANALYTICS_AND_PRIVACY.md` (tracking usage ethically)
- `docs/DEPLOY_DEMO.md` (how to get a live demo URL)
- `docs/exercises/CODEOWNERS_REVIEW_EXERCISE.md` (guided practice PR)
- `.github/workflows/ci.yml` (automation)
- `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md` (PR structure)
- `.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/` (issue forms)
- `SECURITY.md` (security policy)

## GitHub Setup Status (Example Repo)
This repository is configured as a practical GitHub example and includes:

- `About` section with description, homepage, and topics
- Branch protection on `main` (PR review + required CI + admin enforcement)
- CI, Release, and GHCR package workflows
- Dependabot alerts and automated security fixes
- Issue/PR templates, `CODEOWNERS`, `CONTRIBUTING.md`, and `SECURITY.md`
- `CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md` and `SUPPORT.md`

## Visual Walkthrough Assets
Screenshot/GIF placeholders and capture plan live in:
- `docs/images/README.md`
- `docs/images/CAPTURE_CHECKLIST.md`

Add screenshots there to make the GitHub guide more visual for friends and learners.

### Maintainer Workflow (Current)
Because `main` is protected (including admins), changes should go through:
1. Create a branch
2. Push branch
3. Open PR
4. Wait for CI
5. Merge PR

## GitHub Page Anatomy (Quick Reference)
When you open this repository on GitHub, you will usually see:

- `README`
  - Project overview and setup instructions (`README.md`)
- `Security policy`
  - Vulnerability reporting guidance (`SECURITY.md`)
- `Activity`
  - Recent repository changes and maintenance signals
- `Stars`
  - How many users bookmarked/liked the repo
- `Watchers`
  - How many users are subscribed to repo notifications
- `Forks`
  - How many copies of the repo exist in other accounts (often used for contributions)

These counts (`Stars`, `Watchers`, `Forks`) are GitHub UI stats and update automatically over time.

## Security Notes
- CSRF enabled for HTML form submissions (`Flask-WTF`)
- `/api/echo` is CSRF-exempt intentionally as a demo JSON endpoint
- Request IDs are added to logs and responses via `X-Request-Id`
- Rate-limit storage should be Redis in production for accuracy
